1. In general, the linear model of average yearly temperatures has a better fit
than the linear model of temperatures taken on a single day, January 10.
The yearly model has a r squared value of .189 compared to the daily model
has a r squared value of .053.  The yearly model has a higher r squared value
because the data points are the mean of 365 (or 366 leap year) days which
minimizes the effect of outlier days that have an extreme temperature.
However, both graphs have a r squared value that is much closer to 0 than
1 which is due to noisiness caused by the variability of measuring a single day
in the case of the daily model and in the case of the yearly model, although better,
the data also has a significant degree of variability also due to a small sample size
(i.e. sampling the mean of 365 days is better than sampling 1 day but 365 is still not
a very large number).  Measuring a single day or a mean of 365 days allows for more variation from
1 year to the next(i.e. a unusually cold day may be sampled one year followed by an unusually warm day the next year). 
Lastly, the slopes for both models suggest that on average there is a long term trend
of increasing temperatures despite flucuations in those results from 1 year to the next.  The yearly model
also has a lower se over slope ratio which suggests that the upward trend which is seen in the yearly model is
less likely by chance than the daily model.  The yearly model appears to exihibit a slightly higher slope 
than the daily model and both models signal an upward trend in temperature over the years.

2. The linear model corresponding to the data accross multiple cities has a r squared value of .746 significantly higher 
than either of the models for temperatures of just New York City.  It is likely that the r squared value and overall fit of
the multi city model is better than the single city models because each data point is averaged from a larger data set and the data is collected from
multiple regions of the United States which I believe minimizes the effect that a single outlying weather pattern can have on 1 data point(i.e.
A heat wave accross the east coast might affect temperatures in New York but not the whole country at the same point in time, San Fransisco would
be unaffected by a heat wave in New York).  Overall, it is likely that collecting data from multiple cities rather than 1 city reduces variability of the data
and therefore nosiness.  The multiple city model also exhibits a lower se to slope ratio which should give us greater confidenence that the upward trend of the model 
(suggesting an overall trend of global warming) is not by chance compared with the upward trends of the single city models.  I believe that if 3 cities were used to
calculate the average than we would once again trend towards having noiser data, however, I anticipate that the distance between cities will likely have a more
profound effect on the variability of the data than the actual number of cities that the data is collected from.  That is to say 1,000 cities within a close
proximity to one another (e.g. the New England region) will produce data that is noisier than 100 cities confined to the east coast and the least noisy data would
be from 10 cities that were all located in different regions of the United States.

3. The linear model of the 5 year moving averages has a r squared value of .924 which is significantly higher than either of the models
from part A and is also a higher r squared value than the model from part B.  Additionally the model from part 3 has the lowest SE over slope
ratio which should give us the greatest confidenece that the trend of this model isn't by chance.  It is likely that the model from part 3
exhibits the tighest fit to the data because taking the 5 year moving average takes a mean of 5 numbers (except for the cases were only a moving average < 5 can be calculated)
therefore by taking the mean the effect of outlier data points is minimized.  Finally, like the models from part 1 and 2, the model from part 3 shows a consistent
trend of increasing temperatures suggesting an upward trend towards global warming.  

4A. All of the models show an upward trend towards global warming and have a relatively tight fit to the data.  The best r squared value
is the degree 20 model followed by the quadratic model and lastly the linear model.  It is likely that the degree 20 model has the tightest
fit to the data because there are more points of flexibilty in the model (i.e. the 20 degree model has more parabolas than the quadratic model). 
However, the linear model best fits the data despite having a slightly lower r squared value than the quadratic model and a lower r squared value than the degree 20 model.
The linear has only a slightly lower r squared value than the quadratic model and therefore it doesn't warrant selecting the quadratic model because the fit is only slightly
tighter and likely due to over fitting the data.  The degree 20 model has a moderatly higher r squared value than the linear model, however, in this case it is very clear
by examming the plotted data and model that this is due to over fitting the model to the training data.  In summary, the linear model, despite having the lowest r squared value of the 3 models,
offers a tight fit to the data while not overfitting the training data and therefore is the model with the best fit.

4B. The linear model had the lowest rmse value and best fits the data followed by the quadratic model and lastly the degree 20 model.  The quadratic model has a rmse
value that was about double the rmse value for the linear model.  The degree 20 model, however, had a rmse about 15 times higher than the linear model!  If you compare rmse values
for the models to r squared values for the models in problem d.2.1 the results for which model had the tighest fit to the data were the exact opposite.  It is likely that linear model
best fit the testing data because it best avoided overfitting the training data.  The quadratic model had 1 more degree of flexibility compared to the linear model and therefore that caused the
model to use that flexibilty and overfit a bit to the training data.  The degree 20 model had many points of flexibilty and therefore massively overfitted to the training data and then performed
terribly on the testing data.  If the A.4.2 data was used to generate the results I predict that the models with more degrees of flexibilty would have overfit the data to an even larger
extent because there would have been greater variablity in the training data because it was not averaged over many cities and 5 year averages.  Therfore I would expect that the linear model would fit even better
when compared with the quadratic model and enormously better than the degree 20 model.

5. The plot of 5 year moving averages for standard deviations doesn't appear to support the claim that temperature variation is increasing.  The plot shows a clear downtrend over the years in the
magnitude of standard deviations.  By taking the standard deviation we are gaining an insight into the daily variation in temperature from the mean but not neccesarily how many days of extreme temperature
there are in a given year.  That is to say we can see how much the data varys on average from the mean but we aren't counting if there was 10 days or 50 days were the temperature reached extreme levels.  
A possible solution is to count the number of days for each year that we would consider to be such an extreme deviation from the mean to be classfied as an extreme weather day.  We could then plot the
total for each year and compare.

